# Data inalterability check report — Odoo 18.0 documentazione

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](silverfin.html "Silverfin integration") |
  * [precedente](intrastat.html "Intrastat") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione utente](../../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../../finance.html) »
  * [Contabilità e fatturazione](../../accounting.html) »
  * [Rendiconto](../reporting.html) »
  * Data inalterability check report



# Data inalterability check report¶

Tax authorities in some countries require companies to **prove their posted accounting entries are unaltered** , meaning that once an entry has been secured, it can no longer be changed.

To do so, Odoo creates a unique fingerprint for each secured entry thanks to the **SHA-256 algorithm**. This fingerprint is called a hash. The hash is generated by taking an entry’s essential data (the values of the `name`, `date`, `journal_id`, `company_id`, `debit`, `credit`, `account_id`, and `partner_id` fields), concatenating it, and inputting it to the SHA-256 hash function, which then outputs a fixed size (256-bit) string of characters. The hash function is deterministic (the same input always creates the same output): any minor modification to the original data would completely change the resulting hash. Consequently, the SHA-256 algorithm is often used, among others, for data integrity verification purposes.

In addition, the previous entry’s hash is always added to the next entry to form a **hash chain**. This is used to ensure a new entry is not added afterward between two secured entries, as doing so would break the hash chain.

Nota

Hashes generated by the SHA-256 algorithm are theoretically not unique, as there is a finite number of possible values. However, this number is exceptionally high: 2²⁵⁶, which is a lot bigger than the number of atoms in the known universe. This is why hashes are considered unique in practice.

## Inalterability features¶

Inalterability features can be enabled by activating the secure posted entries with hash option on any journal or using the secure entries wizard.

  * Two indicators are added to the journal entry’s form view. They show whether the entry is secured or not.

    * A __or __( lock icon) next to the Posted state.

    * A Secured checkbox in the Other info tab.

  * A Not Secured filter is available on journal entries and journal items” list views. It can be used to find posted journal entries that are not secured yet.

  * The option to open the secure entries wizard is displayed in the Accounting menu.




## Secure posted entries with hash¶

To activate the hashing function on a specific journal, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Journals. Open a sales, purchase, or miscellaneous journal, go to the Advanced Settings tab, and enable Secure Posted Entries with Hash. Journals for which the feature is activated are called «restricted».

To compute the hash of an entry, Odoo retrieves the predecessor entries of the chain (i.e., the entries with the same sequence prefix) and hashes them in a continuous way from the last hashed entry to the new entry to hash.

Avvertimento

Once you post an entry in a restricted journal, you cannot disable the feature anymore, nor edit any secured entry.

## Secure entries wizard¶

You can also use the Secure Entries Wizard to secure all journal entries, in **all** journals, up to a specific date.

Nota

The wizard operates independently of the journal settings and journal types.

To open it, activate the [developer mode](../../../general/developer_mode.html#developer-mode), go to Accounting ‣ Accounting, and click on Secure Entries. If the inalterability features are activated, it is also visible outside the debug mode.

To secure entries, select a date up to which all entries should be secured and press Secure Entries.

Avvertimento

After securing the entries, you can no longer edit them.

Nota

It can happen that entries that are past the selected date are secured. This is possible since the hash chain corresponds to the sequence prefix, ordered by sequence number.

## Report download¶

To download the data inalterability check report, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Reporting and click on Download the Data Inalterability Check Report.

The report’s first section is an overview of all journal sequence prefixes containing hashed entries. In the Restricted column, you can see whether or not a journal has the secure posted entries with hash option (V) activated or not (X). The Check column tells you whether all entries are correctly hashed.

The second section gives a more detailed result of the data consistency check for each hashed journal sequence prefix. You can view the first hashed entry and its corresponding hash, as well as the last hashed entry and its corresponding hash.

[ __Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/odoo/Documentation/edit/18.0/content/applications/finance/accounting/reporting/data_inalterability.rst)

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](silverfin.html "Silverfin integration") |
  * [precedente](intrastat.html "Intrastat") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione utente](../../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../../finance.html) »
  * [Contabilità e fatturazione](../../accounting.html) »
  * [Rendiconto](../reporting.html) »
  * Data inalterability check report


  *[ORM]: Object-Relational Mapping
  *[SQL]: Structured Query Language
  *[PR]: Pull Request
  *[CI]: Continuous integration
  *[OCR]: optical character recognition
  *[AI]: Artificial Intelligence
  *[IAP]: In-App Purchase
  *[RTL]: right-to-left
  *[RST]: reStructuredText
  *[GUI]: graphical user interface
  *[TOC]: Table Of Contents
  *[SEO]: Search Engine Optimization
  *[EDI]: electronic data interchange
  *[SDD]: SEPA Direct Debit
  *[PLE]: Programa de Libros Electrónico
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials
  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[MPS]: Master Production Schedules
  *[OEE]: overall equipment effectiveness
  *[RFQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[IU]: Interfaccia Utente
  *[UoM]: Unit of Measure
  *[PoS]: Point of Sale
  *[FBM]: Fulfilled by Merchant
  *[FBA]: Fulfilled by Amazon
  *[API]: application programming interfaces
  *[IVA]: imposta sul valore aggiunto
  *[MRR]: Monthly Recurring Revenue
  *[ARR]: Annual Recurring Revenue
  *[USB]: Universal Serial Bus
  *[IoT]: Internet of Things
  *[OS]: Operating System
  *[SO]: sales order
  *[MRP]: Material Requirement Planning
  *[DNS]: Domain Name System
  *[SMTP]: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
  *[SSL]: Secure Sockets Layer
  *[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
  *[SPF]: Sender Policy Framework
  *[DKIM]: DomainKeys Identified Mail
  *[DMARC]: Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, & Conformance
  *[CNAME]: nome canonico
  *[Cc]: Copia carbone
  *[LAN]: Local Area Network
  *[SSH]: secure shell protocol
  *[HTTPS]: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
  *[UUID]: Universal Unique Identifier
  *[POS]: point of sale
  *[URL]: Uniform Resource Locator
  *[2FA]: two-factor authentication
  *[QR]: Quick Response
  *[LDAP]: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
  *[KPI]: Indicatori di Prestazione Chiave
  *[ICP]: Indicatori Chiave di Prestazione
  *[CV]: curriculum vitae
  *[IAP’s]: in-app purchases
  *[DMFA]: De Multifunctionele Aangifte
  *[VIN]: Vehicle Identification Number
  *[MSRP]: Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price
  *[SMS]: Short Message Service
  *[CTOR]: click-to-open rate
  *[CTR]: Click through rate
  *[LIFO]: Last-In, First-Out
  *[SAQ]: Self-Assessment Questionnaire
  *[VAT]: Value-Added Tax Identification
  *[SMP]: Service Metadata Publisher
  *[AVCO]: Average Costing
  *[OdA]: Ordine di acquisto
  *[sportello unico OSS]: One-Stop Shop
  *[IAPs]: in-app purchases
  *[SOs]: Sales Orders
  *[SRI]: servicio de rentas internas
  *[ATS]: Anexo Transaccional Simplificado
  *[FPS]: Service Public Federal Finances
  *[ADW]: Average Daily Wage
  *[SII]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[CAFs]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[DTE]: Documentos Tributarios Electrónicos
  *[RUT]: Registro único tributario
  *[CAF]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[SII’s]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[PPM]: Provisional Monthly Payments rate
  *[IFRS]: International Financial Reporting Standards
  *[PCMN]: Plan Comptable Minimum Normalisé
  *[FDM]: Fiscal Data Module
  *[VSC]: VAT signing card
  *[TSS]: Technical Security System
  *[DSFinV-K]: Digitale Schnittstelle der Finanzverwaltung für Kassensysteme
  *[PCGE]: Plan Contable General Empresarial
  *[SUNAT]: Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas y de Administración Tributaria
  *[GRE]: Guía de Remisión Electrónica
  *[OTP]: One-time Password
  *[GAAP]: Generally Acceptable Accounting Practices
  *[AR]: Accounts Receivable
  *[AP]: Accounts Payable
  *[CoA]: chart of accounts
  *[SEC]: Securities and Exchange Commission
  *[CFS]: Cash Flow Statement
  *[ACH]: automated clearing house
  *[NACHA]: National Automated Clearing House Association
  *[DBA]: Danish Bookkeeping Act
  *[IRBM]: Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia
  *[ETA]: Egyptian Tax Authority
  *[FACe]: General Entrance for Electronic Invoices
  *[DIAN]: Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales
  *[UID-Nummer]: Umsatzsteueridentifikationsnummer
  *[AFIP]: Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos
  *[DGI]: Dirección General Impositiva
  *[CAEs]: Constancia de Autorización de Emisión
  *[CUI]: Codul Unic de Inregistrare
  *[CIF]: *Codul de identificare fiscală*
  *[SLS]: Summary List of Sales
  *[SLP]: Summary List of Purchases
  *[TPAR]: Taxable Payments Annual Report
  *[AdE]: Agenzia Delle Entrate
  *[SdI]: Sistema di Interscambio
  *[PA]: Public Administration
  *[CUU]: Codice Univoco Ufficio
  *[CIG]: Codice Identificativo Gara
  *[CUP]: Codice Unico di Progetto
  *[HSM]: Hardware Security Module
  *[Ri.Ba.]: Ricevuta Bancaria
  *[NIC]: National Informatics Centre
  *[IRN]: Invoice Reference Number
  *[CGST]: Central Goods and Services Tax
  *[SGST]: State Goods and Service Tax
  *[IGST]: Integrated Goods and Services Tax
  *[ITC]: Income Tax Credit
  *[SAT]: Servicio de Administración Tributaria
  *[DIOT]: Declaración Informativa de Operaciones con Terceros
  *[RFC]: Registro Federal de Contribuyentes
  *[PAC]: Proveedor Autorizado de Certificación / Authorized Certification Provider
  *[PUE]: Pago en una Sola Exhibición/Payment in a Single Exhibition
  *[PPD]: Pago en Parcialidades o Diferido/Payment in Installements or Deferred
  *[CFDI]: Comprobante Fiscal Digital por Internet
  *[OSCU]: Online Sales Control Unit
  *[BOM]: bill of materials
  *[Bacs]: Bankers' Automated Clearing Services
  *[RCM]: Reverse Charge Mechanism
  *[PDT]: Payment Data Transfer
  *[ECO]: Engineering Change Order
  *[ECOs]: Engineering Change Orders
  *[BoMs]: Bills of Materials
  *[MOs]: Manufacturing Orders
  *[QCP]: Quality Control Point
  *[QCPs]: Quality Control Points
  *[RO]: Repair Order
  *[POs]: Purchase Orders
  *[PLM]: Product Lifecycle Management
  *[PO]: Purchase Order
  *[MTO]: Make to Order
  *[SVLs]: stock valuation layers
  *[SP]: Scrap Order
  *[DO]: Delivery Order
  *[RFQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[EORI]: Economic Operators' Registration and Identification
  *[ZPL]: Zebra Programming Language
  *[DOs]: Delivery Orders
  *[FIFO]: First In, First Out
  *[FEFO]: First Expiry, First Out
  *[UoMs]: Units of Measure
  *[MTBF]: Mean Time Between Failure
  *[MTTR]: Mean Time To Repair
  *[EAN]: European Article Number
  *[UPC]: Universal Product Code
  *[GTIN]: Global Trade Item Number
  *[GTINs]: Global Trade Item Numbers
  *[A.I.]: Application Identifier
  *[CSV]: comma separated value
  *[SLAs]: Service Level Agreements
  *[SLA]: Service Level Agreement
  *[UTM]: Urchin Tracking Module
  *[GTM]: Google Tag Manager
  *[CDN]: Content Delivery Network
  *[CORS]: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
  *[HTML]: HyperText Markup Language
  *[UI]: user interface
  *[ToS]: Terms of Service
  *[NRR]: non-recurring revenue
  *[VoIP]: Voice over Internet Protocol
  *[SIP]: Session Initiation Protocol
  *[US]: United States
  *[MP3]: MPEG Audio Layer 3
  *[WAV]: Waveform Audio File Format
  *[NSSL]: Non-Shopee Supported Logistics
  *[MID]: Merchant ID
  *[TID]: Terminal ID
  *[ISBN]: International Standard Book Number
  *[IP]: intellectual property
  *[SSC]: Jordanian Social Security Corporation
  *[UAE]: United Arab Emirates
  *[GCC]: Gulf Cooperation Council
  *[DEWS]: Daman Investments End of Service Programme
  *[WPS]: Wages Protection System
  *[EOS]: End Of Service
  *[EDR]: Employee Detail Record
  *[SCR]: Salary Control Record