# Data inalterability check report — Odoo 17.0 documentazione

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](silverfin.html "Silverfin integration") |
  * [precedente](intrastat.html "Intrastat") |
  * [Odoo 17.0 documentazione](../../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione Utente](../../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../../finance.html) »
  * [Contabilità e fatturazione](../../accounting.html) »
  * [Rendiconto](../reporting.html) »
  * Data inalterability check report



# Data inalterability check report¶

Tax authorities in some countries require companies to **prove their posted accounting entries are inalterable** , meaning that once an entry has been posted, it can no longer be changed.

To do so, Odoo can use the **SHA-256 algorithm** to create a unique fingerprint for each posted entry. This fingerprint is called a hash. The hash is generated by taking an entry’s essential data (the values of the `name`, `date`, `journal_id`, `company_id`, `debit`, `credit`, `account_id`, and `partner_id` fields), concatenating it, and inputting it to the SHA-256 hash function, which then outputs a fixed size (256-bit) string of characters. The hash function is deterministic (the same input always creates the same output): any minor modification to the original data would completely change the resulting hash. Consequently, the SHA-256 algorithm is often used, among others, for data integrity verification purposes.

In addition, the previous entry’s hash is always added to the next entry to form a **hash chain**. This is used to ensure a new entry is not added afterward between two posted entries, as doing so would break the hash chain.

Nota

Hashes generated by the SHA-256 algorithm are theoretically not unique, as there is a finite number of possible values. However, this number is exceptionally high: 2²⁵⁶, which is a lot bigger than the number of atoms in the known universe. This is why hashes are considered unique in practice.

## Lock posted entries with hash¶

To start using the hashing function, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration > Journals. Open the journal for which you want to activate the feature, go to the Advanced Settings tab, and enable Lock Posted Entries with Hash.

Avvertimento

Once you post an entry on a locked journal, you cannot disable the feature anymore, nor edit any posted entry.

## Report download¶

To download the data inalterability check report, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Reporting and click on Download the Data Inalterability Check Report.

The report’s first section is an overview of all your journals and their configuration. Under the inalterability check column, you can see whether or not a journal’s posted entries are locked with a hash (V) or not (X). The coverage column tells you when a journal’s posted entries started being locked.

The second section gives you the result of the data consistency check for each hashed journal. You can view the first hashed entry and its corresponding hash and the last hashed entry and its corresponding hash.

[ __Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/edit/17.0/content/applications/finance/accounting/reporting/data_inalterability.rst)

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](silverfin.html "Silverfin integration") |
  * [precedente](intrastat.html "Intrastat") |
  * [Odoo 17.0 documentazione](../../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione Utente](../../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../../finance.html) »
  * [Contabilità e fatturazione](../../accounting.html) »
  * [Rendiconto](../reporting.html) »
  * Data inalterability check report


  *[ORM]: Object-Relational Mapping
  *[SQL]: Structured Query Language
  *[PR]: Pull Request
  *[CI]: Continuous integration
  *[OCR]: optical character recognition
  *[AI]: Artificial Intelligence
  *[IAP]: In-App Purchase
  *[RTL]: right-to-left
  *[RST]: reStructuredText
  *[GUI]: graphical user interface
  *[TOC]: Table Of Contents
  *[SEO]: Search Engine Optimization
  *[EDI]: electronic data interchange
  *[SDD]: SEPA Direct Debit
  *[PLE]: Programa de Libros Electrónico
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials
  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[MPS]: Master Production Schedules
  *[OEE]: overall equipment effectiveness
  *[RFQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[IU]: Interfaccia Utente
  *[UoM]: Unit of Measure
  *[PoS]: Point of Sale
  *[FBM]: Fulfilled By Merchant
  *[FBA]: Fulfilled by Amazon
  *[API]: application programming interfaces
  *[IVA]: imposta sul valore aggiunto
  *[MRR]: Monthly Recurring Revenue
  *[ARR]: Annual Recurring Revenue
  *[USB]: Universal Serial Bus
  *[IoT]: Internet of Things
  *[OS]: Operating System
  *[SO]: sales order
  *[MRP]: Material Requirement Planning
  *[DNS]: Domain Name System
  *[SMTP]: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
  *[SSL]: Secure Sockets Layer
  *[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
  *[SPF]: Sender Policy Framework
  *[DKIM]: DomainKeys Identified Mail
  *[DMARC]: Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, & Conformance
  *[CNAME]: nome canonico
  *[Cc]: Copia carbone
  *[LAN]: Local Area Network
  *[SSH]: secure shell protocol
  *[HTTPS]: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
  *[UUID]: Universal Unique Identifier
  *[POS]: Point Of Sale
  *[URL]: Uniform Resource Locator
  *[2FA]: two-factor authentication
  *[QR]: Quick Response
  *[LDAP]: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
  *[KPI]: Indicatori di Prestazione Chiave
  *[ICP]: Indicatori Chiave di Prestazione
  *[CV]: curriculum vitae
  *[IAP’s]: in-app purchases
  *[DMFA]: De Multifunctionele Aangifte
  *[VIN]: Vehicle Identification Number
  *[MSRP]: Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price
  *[SMS]: Short Message Service
  *[CTOR]: click-to-open rate
  *[CTR]: Click through rate
  *[LIFO]: Last-In, First-Out
  *[SAQ]: Self-Assessment Questionnaire