# SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) customer payments — Odoo 18.0 documentazione

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](follow_up.html "Follow-up on invoices") |
  * [precedente](batch.html "Pagamenti raggruppati") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione utente](../../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../../finance.html) »
  * [Contabilità e fatturazione](../../accounting.html) »
  * [Pagamenti](../payments.html) »
  * SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) customer payments



# SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) customer payments¶

SEPA (Single Euro Payments Area) is a payment-integration initiative of the European Union that facilitates standardized and simplified electronic payments in euros across participating countries. With **SEPA Direct Debit** (SDD), customers sign a mandate that authorizes you to collect future payments from their bank accounts. This is particularly useful for recurring payments based on a [subscription](../../../sales/subscriptions.html).

You can record customer SDD mandates in Odoo and generate XML files listing payments to be collected with the mandates. Uploading these files to your bank instructs them to collect these payments from your customers.

Nota

  * SDD is supported by all SEPA countries, which includes the 27 member states of the European Union as well as additional countries.

  * [List of all SEPA countries](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/other/epc-list-sepa-scheme-countries).




## Configurazione¶

### Creditor identifier¶

To enable SDD for customer payments, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings, scroll to the Customer Payments section, enable SEPA Direct Deposit (SDD), and click Save. Then, scroll to the Customer Payments section again, set the company’s Creditor Identifier, and click Save.

Suggerimento

The creditor identifier is provided by your bank or the authority responsible for delivering them in your country. For testing purposes, you can use the test creditor identifier `DE98ZZZ09999999999`.

### PAIN file version¶

By default, the SEPA-compliant XML files generated by Odoo use the SDD **PAIN.008.001.02** format. If your bank requires the updated 2023 version, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Journals and select the Bank journal. Then, in the Incoming Payments tab, set the SEPA Pain version field to Updated 2023 (Pain 008.001.08).

Vedi anche

[SEPA Direct Debit Core Customer-to-PSP Implementation Guidelines](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/implementation-guidelines/sepa-direct-debit-core-customer-psp-implementation-0).

## SEPA Direct Debit Mandates¶

An SDD mandate is a legal document authorizing a company to debit funds from a customer’s bank account. It includes key information, such as the customer’s name and IBAN, the mandate’s start and end date, and the mandate’s unique identifier. The mandate form must be filled in and signed by the customer.

### Creating mandates¶

To create an SDD mandate:

  1. Go to Accounting ‣ Customers ‣ Direct Debit Mandates.

  2. Click New and fill out the fields.

  3. Click Send & Print, optionally edit the email, then click Send & Print to email the mandate form to the customer for signature.

  4. Click Validate to activate the mandate.




Importante

A valid IBAN must be defined in the Account Number field of the [bank journal](../bank.html) used to receive SDD payments for the mandate.

Suggerimento

  * To print the mandate form after the mandate has been validated, click the __( gear) icon, then select Mandate form.

  * The SDD Scheme depends on the type of customer: Select CORE for B2C customers and B2B for B2B customers.

  * SDD mandates are created automatically for [online payments made with SDD](../../payment_providers/sdd.html).




Once an SDD mandate is active, subsequent SDD payments can be generated via Odoo and uploaded to your online banking interface. Customers with an active SDD mandate can also use this payment method for [online purchases](../../payment_providers/sdd.html).

### Closing or revoking a mandate¶

SDD mandates are closed automatically after their End Date. If this field is left empty, the mandate remains active until it is closed or revoked. To close or revoke a mandate, go to Accounting ‣ Customers ‣ Direct Debit Mandates, select the relevant mandate, and click Close or Revoke.

**Closing** a mandate updates the mandate’s end day to the current day. Invoices issued after the present day will not be processed with an SDD payment. **Revoking** a mandate disables the mandate immediately. No SDD payment can be registered anymore, regardless of the invoice’s date. However, payments that have already been registered are still included in the next SDD XML file.

Avvertimento

Closed or revoked mandates cannot be reactivated.

## Processing SDD payments¶

All registered SDD payments can be processed at once by uploading an XML file containing a batch of all posted SDD payments to your online banking interface. To do so, follow these steps:

  1. [Create a batch payment](batch.html#accounting-batch-creation) and include the SDD payments to collect.

Suggerimento

You can filter payments by SDD scheme using the SDD CORE and SDD B2B filters.

  2. Validate the batch payment. The XML file is generated automatically and available for download in the chatter.

  3. Download the XML file and upload it to your online banking interface to process the payments.

  4. Once the SDD batch payment has been received, [reconcile the transaction](../bank/reconciliation.html) with the batch payment to mark the related invoices as Paid.




Suggerimento

  * To view the payments and invoices linked to a specific SDD mandate, click the Collections and Invoices Paid smart button on the Direct Debit Mandate form.

  * Click Re-generate Export file to regenerate the XML file.




Vedi anche

  * [Pagamenti raggruppati](batch.html)

  * [SEPA Direct Debit for online payments](../../payment_providers/sdd.html)

  * [SEPA guidelines](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/implementation-guidelines/sepa-credit-transfer-inter-psp-implementation-guidelines)




## SDD rejections¶

SDD rejections can occur for several reasons, the most common being insufficient funds in the customer’s account. With SDD, the recipient’s account is credited before the funds are actually debited from the customer’s account. As a result, if an SDD payment is later rejected, the bank automatically withdraws the amount of that payment from the recipient’s account, and a new transaction for a negative amount is created to reflect the SDD rejection.

SDD rejections are handled differently depending on whether [outstanding accounts](../bank.html#accounting-bank-outstanding-accounts) are configured or not for the SDD payment method.

Nota

The following procedures assume that the incoming SDD payment’s bank transaction has already been [reconciled](../bank/reconciliation.html#accounting-reconciliation-reconcile) with the payments or invoices.

Without outstanding accountsUsing outstanding accounts

If no [outstanding accounts](../bank.html#accounting-bank-outstanding-accounts) are configured for the SDD payment method, no journal entry is created. In this case, you must cancel and unreconcile the payment.

  1. Access the invoice linked to the rejected SDD payment.

  2. Click the Payments smart button to access the payment associated with the invoice.

  3. Click Reset to draft, then Cancel.

  4. Go back to the invoice and click the __(information) icon in the footer of the Invoice Lines tab, then click Unreconcile.

  5. [Access the bank journal’s reconciliation view](../bank/reconciliation.html#accounting-reconciliation-access) and [reconcile](../bank/reconciliation.html#accounting-reconciliation-reconcile) the transaction created for the SDD rejection with the debit (negative journal item) to the account receivable on the incoming bank transaction.




If an [outstanding account](../bank.html#accounting-bank-outstanding-accounts) is set on the SDD payment method, SDD payments create journal entries. If an SDD payment is rejected, you must reverse the journal entry associated with the rejected payment and reconcile the reversal of the journal entry with the transaction for the SDD rejection. To do so, follow these steps:

  1. Access the invoice linked to the rejected SDD payment.

  2. Click the __(information) icon in the footer of the Invoice Lines tab, then click View to access the payment associated with the invoice.

  3. Click the Journal entry smart button to access the related journal entry.

  4. Click Reverse entry, optionally edit the fields in the popup, then click Reverse. A reversal entry is created with a Reference mentioning the initial journal entry. As a result, the invoice is marked as Not paid.

  5. [Access the bank journal’s reconciliation view](../bank/reconciliation.html#accounting-reconciliation-access) and [reconcile](../bank/reconciliation.html#accounting-reconciliation-reconcile) the transaction created for the SDD rejection with the reversal of the entry related to the payment.




[ __Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/edit/18.0/content/applications/finance/accounting/payments/batch_sdd.rst)

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](follow_up.html "Follow-up on invoices") |
  * [precedente](batch.html "Pagamenti raggruppati") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione utente](../../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../../finance.html) »
  * [Contabilità e fatturazione](../../accounting.html) »
  * [Pagamenti](../payments.html) »
  * SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) customer payments


  *[ORM]: Object-Relational Mapping
  *[SQL]: Structured Query Language
  *[PR]: Pull Request
  *[CI]: Continuous integration
  *[OCR]: optical character recognition
  *[AI]: Artificial Intelligence
  *[IAP]: In-App Purchase
  *[RTL]: right-to-left
  *[RST]: reStructuredText
  *[GUI]: graphical user interface
  *[TOC]: Table Of Contents
  *[SEO]: Search Engine Optimization
  *[EDI]: electronic data interchange
  *[SDD]: SEPA Direct Debit
  *[PLE]: Programa de Libros Electrónico
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials
  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[MPS]: Master Production Schedules
  *[OEE]: overall equipment effectiveness
  *[RFQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[IU]: Interfaccia Utente
  *[UoM]: Unit of Measure
  *[PoS]: Point of Sale
  *[FBM]: Fulfilled by Merchant
  *[FBA]: Fulfilled by Amazon
  *[API]: application programming interfaces
  *[IVA]: imposta sul valore aggiunto
  *[MRR]: Monthly Recurring Revenue
  *[ARR]: Annual Recurring Revenue
  *[USB]: Universal Serial Bus
  *[IoT]: Internet of Things
  *[OS]: Operating System
  *[SO]: sales order
  *[MRP]: Material Requirement Planning
  *[DNS]: Domain Name System
  *[SMTP]: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
  *[SSL]: Secure Sockets Layer
  *[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
  *[SPF]: Sender Policy Framework
  *[DKIM]: DomainKeys Identified Mail
  *[DMARC]: Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, & Conformance
  *[CNAME]: nome canonico
  *[Cc]: Copia carbone
  *[LAN]: Local Area Network
  *[SSH]: secure shell protocol
  *[HTTPS]: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
  *[UUID]: Universal Unique Identifier
  *[POS]: point of sale
  *[URL]: Uniform Resource Locator
  *[2FA]: two-factor authentication
  *[QR]: Quick Response
  *[LDAP]: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
  *[KPI]: Indicatori di Prestazione Chiave
  *[ICP]: Indicatori Chiave di Prestazione
  *[CV]: curriculum vitae
  *[IAP’s]: in-app purchases
  *[DMFA]: De Multifunctionele Aangifte
  *[VIN]: Vehicle Identification Number
  *[MSRP]: Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price
  *[SMS]: Short Message Service
  *[CTOR]: click-to-open rate
  *[CTR]: Click through rate
  *[LIFO]: Last-In, First-Out
  *[SAQ]: Self-Assessment Questionnaire
  *[VAT]: Value Added Tax
  *[SMP]: Service Metadata Publisher
  *[AVCO]: Average Costing
  *[OdA]: Ordine di acquisto
  *[sportello unico OSS]: One-Stop Shop
  *[IAPs]: in-app purchases
  *[SOs]: Sales Orders
  *[SRI]: servicio de rentas internas
  *[ATS]: Anexo Transaccional Simplificado
  *[FPS]: Service Public Federal Finances
  *[ADW]: Average Daily Wage
  *[SII]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[CAFs]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[DTE]: Documentos Tributarios Electrónicos
  *[RUT]: Registro único tributario
  *[CAF]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[SII’s]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[PPM]: Provisional Monthly Payments rate
  *[IFRS]: International Financial Reporting Standards
  *[PCMN]: Plan Comptable Minimum Normalisé
  *[FDM]: Fiscal Data Module
  *[VSC]: VAT signing card
  *[TSS]: Technical Security System
  *[DSFinV-K]: Digitale Schnittstelle der Finanzverwaltung für Kassensysteme
  *[PCGE]: Plan Contable General Empresarial
  *[SUNAT]: Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas y de Administración Tributaria
  *[GRE]: Guía de Remisión Electrónica
  *[OTP]: One-time Password
  *[GAAP]: Generally Acceptable Accounting Practices
  *[AR]: Accounts Receivable
  *[AP]: Accounts Payable
  *[CoA]: chart of accounts
  *[SEC]: Securities and Exchange Commission
  *[CFS]: Cash Flow Statement
  *[ACH]: automated clearing house
  *[NACHA]: National Automated Clearing House Association
  *[DBA]: Danish Bookkeeping Act
  *[IRBM]: Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia
  *[ETA]: Egyptian Tax Authority
  *[FACe]: General Entrance for Electronic Invoices
  *[DIAN]: Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales
  *[UID-Nummer]: Umsatzsteueridentifikationsnummer
  *[AFIP]: Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos
  *[DGI]: Dirección General Impositiva
  *[CAEs]: Constancia de Autorización de Emisión
  *[CUI]: Codul Unic de Inregistrare
  *[CIF]: *Codul de identificare fiscală*
  *[SLS]: Summary List of Sales
  *[SLP]: Summary List of Purchases
  *[TPAR]: Taxable Payments Annual Report
  *[AdE]: Agenzia Delle Entrate
  *[SdI]: Sistema di Interscambio
  *[PA]: Public Administration
  *[CUU]: Codice Univoco Ufficio
  *[CIG]: Codice Identificativo Gara
  *[CUP]: Codice Unico di Progetto
  *[HSM]: Hardware Security Module
  *[Ri.Ba.]: Ricevuta Bancaria
  *[NIC]: National Informatics Centre
  *[IRN]: Invoice Reference Number
  *[CGST]: Central Goods and Services Tax
  *[SGST]: State Goods and Service Tax
  *[IGST]: Integrated Goods and Services Tax
  *[ITC]: Income Tax Credit
  *[SAT]: Servicio de Administración Tributaria
  *[DIOT]: Declaración Informativa de Operaciones con Terceros
  *[RFC]: Registro Federal de Contribuyentes
  *[PAC]: Proveedor Autorizado de Certificación / Authorized Certification Provider
  *[PUE]: Pago en una Sola Exhibición/Payment in a Single Exhibition
  *[PPD]: Pago en Parcialidades o Diferido/Payment in Installements or Deferred
  *[CFDI]: Comprobante Fiscal Digital por Internet
  *[OSCU]: Online Sales Control Unit
  *[BOM]: bill of materials
  *[Bacs]: Bankers' Automated Clearing Services
  *[RCM]: Reverse Charge Mechanism
  *[PDT]: Payment Data Transfer
  *[ECO]: Engineering Change Order
  *[ECOs]: Engineering Change Orders
  *[BoMs]: Bills of Materials
  *[MOs]: Manufacturing Orders
  *[QCP]: Quality Control Point
  *[QCPs]: Quality Control Points
  *[RO]: Repair Order
  *[POs]: Purchase Orders
  *[PLM]: Product Lifecycle Management
  *[PO]: Purchase Order
  *[MTO]: Make to Order
  *[SVLs]: stock valuation layers
  *[SP]: Scrap Order
  *[DO]: Delivery Order
  *[RFQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[EORI]: Economic Operators' Registration and Identification
  *[ZPL]: Zebra Programming Language
  *[DOs]: Delivery Orders
  *[FIFO]: First In, First Out
  *[FEFO]: First Expiry, First Out
  *[UoMs]: Units of Measure
  *[MTBF]: Mean Time Between Failure
  *[MTTR]: Mean Time To Repair
  *[EAN]: European Article Number
  *[UPC]: Universal Product Code
  *[GTIN]: Global Trade Item Number
  *[GTINs]: Global Trade Item Numbers
  *[A.I.]: Application Identifier
  *[CSV]: comma separated value
  *[SLAs]: Service Level Agreements
  *[SLA]: Service Level Agreement
  *[UTM]: Urchin Tracking Module
  *[GTM]: Google Tag Manager
  *[CDN]: Content Delivery Network
  *[CORS]: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
  *[HTML]: HyperText Markup Language
  *[UI]: user interface
  *[ToS]: Terms of Service
  *[NRR]: non-recurring revenue
  *[VoIP]: Voice over Internet Protocol
  *[SIP]: Session Initiation Protocol
  *[US]: United States
  *[MP3]: MPEG Audio Layer 3
  *[WAV]: Waveform Audio File Format
  *[NSSL]: Non-Shopee Supported Logistics
  *[MID]: Merchant ID
  *[TID]: Terminal ID
  *[ISBN]: International Standard Book Number
  *[IP]: intellectual property
  *[SSC]: Jordanian Social Security Corporation
  *[UAE]: United Arab Emirates
  *[GCC]: Gulf Cooperation Council
  *[DEWS]: Daman Investments End of Service Programme
  *[WPS]: Wages Protection System
  *[EOS]: End Of Service
  *[EDR]: Employee Detail Record
  *[SCR]: Salary Control Record