# Restrict access to data — Odoo 18.0 documentazione

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](unit_tests.html "Safeguard your code with unit tests") |
  * [precedente](define_module_data.html "Define module data") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../index-2.html) »
  * [Developer](../../developer.html) »
  * [Tutorials](../tutorials.html) »
  * Restrict access to data



# Restrict access to data¶

Importante

This tutorial is an extension of the [Server framework 101](server_framework_101.html) tutorial. Make sure you have completed it and use the `estate` module you have built as a base for the exercises in this tutorial.

So far we have mostly concerned ourselves with implementing useful features. However in most business scenarios _security_ quickly becomes a concern: currently,

  * Any employee (which is what `group_user` stands for) can create, read, update or delete properties, property types, or property tags.

  * If `estate_account` is installed then only agents allowed to interact with invoicing can confirm sales as that’s necessary to [create an invoice](server_framework_101/13_other_module.html#tutorials-server-framework-101-13-other-module-create).




However:

  * We do not want third parties to be able to access properties directly.

  * Not all our employees may be real-estate agents (e.g. administrative personnel, property managers, …), we don’t want non-agents to see the available properties.

  * Real-estate agents don’t need or get to decide what property types or tags are _available_.

  * Real-estate agents can have _exclusive_ properties, we do not want one agent to be able to manage another’s exclusives.

  * All real-estate agents should be able to confirm the sale of a property they can manage, but we do not want them to be able to validate or mark as paid any invoice in the system.




Nota

We may actually be fine with some or most of these for a small business.

Because it’s easier for users to disable unnecessary security rules than it is to create them from nothing, it’s better to err on the side of caution and limit access: users can relax that access if necessary or convenient.

## Groups¶

Vedi anche

The documentation related to this topic can be found in [the security reference](../reference/backend/security.html#reference-security).

[Coding guidelines](../../contributing/development/coding_guidelines.html) document the format and location of master data items.

**Goal**

At the end of this section,

  * We can make employees _real-estate agents_ or _real-estate managers_.

  * The `admin` user is a real-estate manager.

  * We have a new _real-estate agent_ employee with no access to invoicing or administration.




It would not be practical to attach individual security rules to employees any time we need a change so _groups_ link security rules and users. They correspond to roles that can be assigned to employees.

For most Odoo applications 1 a good baseline is to have _user_ and _manager_ (or administrator) roles: the manager can change the configuration of the application and oversee the entirety of its use while the user can well, use the application 2.

This baseline seems sufficient for us:

  * Real estate managers can configure the system (manage available types and tags) as well as oversee every property in the pipeline.

  * Real estate agents can manage the properties under their care, or properties which are not specifically under the care of any agent.




In keeping with Odoo’s data-driven nature, a group is no more than a record of the `res.groups` model. They are normally part of a module’s [master data](define_module_data.html), defined in one of the module’s data files.

As simple example [can be found here](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/532c083cbbe0ee6e7a940e2bdc9c677bd56b62fa/addons/hr/security/hr_security.xml#L9-L14).

Exercise

  1. Create the `security.xml` file in the appropriate folder and add it to the `__manifest__.py` file.

  2. If not already, add a `'category'` field to your `__manifest__.py` with value `Real Estate/Brokerage`.

  3. Add a record creating a group with the id `estate_group_user`, the name «Agent» and the category `base.module_category_real_estate_brokerage`.

  4. Below that, add a record creating a group with the id `estate_group_manager`, the name «Manager» and the category `base.module_category_real_estate_brokerage`. The `estate_group_manager` group needs to imply `estate_group_user`.




Nota

Where does that **category** comes from ? It’s a _module category_. Here we used the category id `base.module_category_real_estate_brokerage` which was automatically generated by Odoo based on the `category` set in the `__manifest__.py` of the module. You can also find here the list of [default module categories](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/71da80deb044852a2af6b111d695f94aad7803ac/odoo/addons/base/data/ir_module_category_data.xml) provided by Odoo.

Suggerimento

Since we modified data files, remember to restart Odoo and update the module using `-u estate`.

If you go to Settings ‣ Manage Users and open the `admin` user («Mitchell Admin»), you should see a new section:

Set the admin user to be a _Real Estate manager_.

Exercise

Via the web interface, create a new user with only the «real estate agent» access. The user should not have any Invoicing or Administration access.

Use a private tab or window to log in with the new user (remember to set a password), as the real-estate agent you should only see the real estate application, and possibly the Discuss (chat) application:

## Access Rights¶

Vedi anche

The documentation related to this topic can be found at [Access Rights](../reference/backend/security.html#reference-security-acl).

**Goal**

At the end of this section,

  * Employees who are not at least real-estate agents will not see the real-estate application.

  * Real-estate agents will not be able to update the property types or tags.




Access rights were first introduced in [Chapter 4: Security - A Brief Introduction](server_framework_101/04_securityintro.html).

Access rights are a way to give users access to models _via_ groups: associate an access right to a group, then all users with that group will have the access.

For instance we don’t want real-estate agents to be able to modify what property types are available, so we would not link that access to the «user» group.

Access rights can only give access, they can’t remove it: when access is checked, the system looks to see if _any_ access right associated with the user (via any group) grants that access.

group | create | read | update | delete  
---|---|---|---|---  
A | X | X |  |   
B |  | X |  |   
C |  |  | X |   
  
A user with the groups A and C will be able to do anything but delete the object while one with B and C will be able to read and update it, but not create or delete it.

Nota

  * The group of an access right can be omitted, this means the ACL applies to _every user_ , this is a useful but risky fallback as depending on the applications installed it can grant even non-users access to the model.

  * If no access right applies to a user, they are not granted access (default-deny).

  * If a menu item points to a model to which a user doesn’t have access and has no submenus which the user can see, the menu will not be displayed.




Exercise

Update the access rights file to:

  * Give full access to all objects to your Real Estate Manager group.

  * Give agents (real estate users) only read access to types and tags.

  * Give nobody the right to delete properties.

  * Check that your agent user is not able to alter types or tags, or to delete properties, but that they can otherwise create or update properties.




Avvertimento

Remember to give different xids to your `ir.model.access` records otherwise they will overwrite one another.

Since the «demo» user was not made a real-estate agent or manager, they should not even be able to see the real-estate application. Use a private tab or window to check for this (the «demo» user has the password «demo»).

## Record Rules¶

Vedi anche

The documentation related to this topic can be found at [Record Rules](../reference/backend/security.html#reference-security-rules).

**Goal**

At the end of this section, agents will not be able to see the properties exclusive to their colleagues; but managers will still be able to see everything.

Access rights can grant access to an entire model but often we need to be more specific: while an agent can interact with properties in general we may not want them to update or even see properties managed by one of their colleagues.

Record _rules_ provide that precision: they can grant or reject access to individual records:
    
    
    <record id="rule_id" model="ir.rule">
        <field name="name">A description of the rule's role</field>
        <field name="model_id" ref="model_to_manage"/>
        <field name="perm_read" eval="False"/>
        <field name="groups" eval="[Command.link(ref('base.group_user'))]"/>
        <field name="domain_force">[
            '|', ('user_id', '=', user.id),
                 ('user_id', '=', False)
        ]</field>
    </record>
    

The [Search domains](../reference/backend/orm.html#reference-orm-domains) is how access is managed: if the record passes then access is granted, otherwise access is rejected.

Suggerimento

Because rules tends to be rather complex and not created in bulk, they’re usually created in XML rather than the CSV used for access rights.

The rule above:

  * Only applies to the «create», «update» (write) and «delete» (unlink) operations: here we want every employee to be able to see other users” records but only the author / assignee can update a record.

  * Is [non-global](../reference/backend/security.html#reference-security-rules-global) so we can provide an additional rule for e.g. managers.

  * Allows the operation if the current user (`user.id`) is set (e.g. created, or is assigned) on the record, or if the record has no associated user at all.




Nota

If no rule is defined or applies to a model and operation, then the operation is allowed (_default-allow_), this can have odd effects if access rights are not set up correctly (are too permissive).

Exercise

Define a rule which limits agents to only being able to see or modify properties which have no salesperson, or for which they are the salesperson.

You may want to create a second real-estate agent user, or create a few properties for which the salesperson is a manager or some other user.

Verify that your real estate manager(s) can still see all properties. If not, why not? Remember:

> The `estate_group_manager` group needs to imply `estate_group_user`.

## Security Override¶

### Bypassing Security¶

**Goal**

At the end of this section, agents should be able to confirm property sales without needing invoicing access.

If you try to mark a property as «sold» as the real estate agent, you should get an access error:

This happens because `estate_account` tries to create an invoice during the process, but creating an invoice requires the right to all invoice management.

We want agents to be able to confirm a sale without them having full invoicing access, which means we need to _bypass_ the normal security checks of Odoo in order to create an invoice _despite_ the current user not having the right to do so.

There are two main ways to bypass existing security checks in Odoo, either wilfully or as a side-effect:

  * The `sudo()` method will create a new recordset in «sudo mode», this ignores all access rights and record rules (although hard-coded group and user checks may still apply).

  * Performing raw SQL queries will bypass access rights and record rules as a side-effect of bypassing the ORM itself.




Exercise

Update `estate_account` to bypass access rights and rules when creating the invoice.

Pericolo

These features should generally be avoided, and only used with extreme care, after having checked that the current user and operation should be able to bypass normal access rights validation.

Operations performed in such modes should also rely on user input as little as possible, and should validate it to the maximum extent they can.

### Programmatically checking security¶

**Goal**

At the end of this section, the creation of the invoice should be resilient to security issues regardless to changes to `estate`.

In Odoo, access rights and record rules are only checked _when performing data access via the ORM_ e.g. creating, reading, searching, writing, or unlinking a record via ORM methods. Other methods do _not_ necessarily check against any sort of access rights.

In the previous section, we bypassed the record rules when creating the invoice in `action_sold`. This bypass can be reached by any user without any access right being checked:

  * Add a print to `action_sold` in `estate_account` before the creation of the invoice (as creating the invoice accesses the property, therefore triggers an ACL check) e.g.:
        
        print(" reached ".center(100, '='))
        




You should see `reached` in your Odoo log, followed by an access error.

Pericolo

Just because you’re already in Python code does not mean any access right or rule has or will be checked.

_Currently_ the accesses are implicitly checked by accessing data on `self` as well as calling `super()` (which does the same and _updates_ `self`), triggering access errors and cancelling the transaction «uncreating» our invoice.

_However_ if this changes in the future, or we add side-effects to the method (e.g. reporting the sale to a government agency), or bugs are introduced in `estate`, … it would be possible for non-agents to trigger operations they should not have access to.

Therefore when performing non-CRUD operations, or legitimately bypassing the ORM or security, or when triggering other side-effects, it is extremely important to perform _explicit security checks_.

Explicit security checks can be performed by:

  * Checking who the current user is (`self.env.user`) and match them against specific models or records.

  * Checking that the current user has specific groups hard-coded to allow or deny an operation (`self.env.user.has_group`).

  * Calling `check_access(operations)` on a recordset, this verifies that the current user is allowed to perform the operation on _every_ record of the set. As a special case, when the recordset is empty, it verifies that the current user has some access rights to perform the operation on the model in general.




Exercise

Before creating the invoice, use `check_access` to ensure that the current user can update the property the invoice is for.

Re-run the bypass script, check that the error occurs before the print.

## Multi-company security¶

Vedi anche

[Multi-company Guidelines](../howtos/company.html#reference-howtos-company) for an overview of multi-company facilities in general, and [multi-company security rules](../howtos/company.html#howto-company-security) in particular.

Documentation on rules in general can, again, be found at [Record Rules](../reference/backend/security.html#reference-security-rules).

**Goal**

At the end of this section, agents should only have access to properties of their agency (or agencies).

For one reason or another we might need to manage our real-estate business as multiple companies e.g. we might have largely autonomous agencies, a franchise setup, or multiple brands (possibly from having acquired other real-estate businesses) which remain legally or financially separate from one another.

Odoo can be used to manage multiple companies inside the same system, however the actual handling is up to individual modules: Odoo itself provides the tools to manage the issue of company-dependent fields and _multi-company rules_ , which is what we’re going to concern ourselves with.

We want different agencies to be «siloed» from one another, with properties belonging to a given agency and users (whether agents or managers) only able to see properties linked to their agency.

As before, because this is based on non-trivial records it’s easier for a user to relax rules than to tighten them so it makes sense to default to a relatively stronger security model.

Multi-company rules are simply record rules based on the `company_ids` or `company_id` fields:

  * `company_ids` is all the companies to which the current user has access

  * `company_id` is the currently active company (the one the user is currently working in / for).




Multi-company rules will _usually_ use the former i.e. check if the record is associated with _one_ of the companies the user has access to:
    
    
    <record model="ir.rule" id="hr_appraisal_plan_comp_rule">
        <field name="name">Appraisal Plan multi-company</field>
        <field name="model_id" ref="model_hr_appraisal_plan"/>
        <field name="domain_force">[
            '|', ('company_id', '=', False),
                 ('company_id', 'in', company_ids)
        ]</field>
    </record>
    

Pericolo

Multi-company rules are usually [global](../reference/backend/security.html#reference-security-rules-global), otherwise there is a high risk that additional rules would allow bypassing the multi-company rules.

Exercise

  * Add a `company_id` field to `estate.property`, it should be required (we don’t want agency-less properties), and should default to the current user’s current company.

  * Create a new company, with a new estate agent in that company.

  * The manager should be a member of both companies.

  * The old agent should only be a member of the old company.

  * Create a few properties in each company (either use the company selector as the manager or use the agents). Unset the default salesman to avoid triggering _that_ rule.

  * All agents can see all companies, which is not desirable, add the record rule restricting this behaviour.




Avvertimento

remember to `--update` your module when you change its model or data

## Visibility != security¶

**Goal**

At the end of this section, real-estate agents should not see the Settings menu of the real-estate application, but should still be able to set the property type or tags.

Specific Odoo models can be associated directly with groups (or companies, or users). It is important to figure out whether this association is a _security_ or a _visibility_ feature before using it:

  * _Visibility_ features mean a user can still access the model or record otherwise, either through another part of the interface or by [performing operations remotely using RPC](../reference/external_api.html), things might just not be visible in the web interface in some contexts.

  * _Security_ features mean a user can not access records, fields or operations.




Here are some examples:

  * Groups on _model fields_ (in Python) are a security feature, users outside the group will not be able to retrieve the field, or even know it exists.

Example: in server actions, [only system users can see or update Python code](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/7058e338a980268df1c502b8b2860bdd8be9f727/odoo/addons/base/models/ir_actions.py#L414-L417).

  * Groups on _view elements_ (in XML) are a visibility feature, users outside the group will not be able to see the element or its content in the form but they will otherwise be able to interact with the object (including that field).

Example: [only managers have an immediate filter to see their teams” leaves](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/8e19904bcaff8300803a7b596c02ec45fcf36ae6/addons/hr_holidays/report/hr_leave_reports.xml#L16).

  * Groups on menus and actions are visibility features, the menu or action will not be shown in the interface but that doesn’t prevent directly interacting with the underlying object.

Example: [only system administrators can see the elearning settings menu](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/ff828a3e0c5386dc54e6a46fd71de9272ef3b691/addons/website_slides/views/website_slides_menu_views.xml#L64-L69).




Exercise

Real Estate agents can not add property types or tags, but can see their options from the Property form view when creating it.

The Settings menu just adds noise to their interface, make it only visible to managers.

Despite not having access to the Property Types and Property Tags menus anymore, agents can still access the underlying objects since they can still select tags or a type to set on their properties.

1
    

An Odoo Application is a group of related modules covering a business area or field, usually composed of a base module and a number of expansions on that base to add optional or specific features, or link to other business areas.

2
    

For applications which would be used by most or every employees, the «application user» role might be done away with and its abilities granted to all employees directly e.g. generally all employees can submit expenses or take time off.

[ __Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/odoo/Documentation/edit/18.0/content/developer/tutorials/restrict_data_access.rst)

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](unit_tests.html "Safeguard your code with unit tests") |
  * [precedente](define_module_data.html "Define module data") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../index-2.html) »
  * [Developer](../../developer.html) »
  * [Tutorials](../tutorials.html) »
  * Restrict access to data


  *[ORM]: Object-Relational Mapping
  *[SQL]: Structured Query Language
  *[PR]: Pull Request
  *[CI]: Continuous Integration
  *[OCR]: optical character recognition
  *[AI]: Artificial Intelligence
  *[IAP]: Acquisti in-app
  *[RTL]: right-to-left
  *[RST]: reStructuredText
  *[GUI]: graphical user interface
  *[TOC]: Table Of Contents
  *[SEO]: Search Engine Optimization
  *[EDI]: electronic data interchange
  *[SDD]: SEPA Direct Debit
  *[PLE]: Programa de Libros Electrónico
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials
  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[MPS]: Master Production Schedule
  *[OEE]: overall equipment effectiveness
  *[RFQ]: request for quotation
  *[RfQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[IU]: Interfaccia Utente
  *[UoM]: Unit of Measure
  *[PoS]: Point of Sale
  *[FBM]: Fulfilled By Merchant
  *[FBA]: Fulfilled by Amazon
  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[IVA]: imposta sul valore aggiunto
  *[MRR]: monthly recurring revenue
  *[ARR]: Annual Recurring Revenue
  *[USB]: Universal Serial Bus
  *[IoT]: Internet of Things
  *[OS]: Operating System
  *[SO]: sales order
  *[MRP]: Material Requirement Planning
  *[DNS]: Domain name System
  *[SMTP]: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
  *[SSL]: Secure Sockets Layer
  *[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
  *[SPF]: Sender Policy Framework
  *[DKIM]: DomainKeys Identified Mail
  *[DMARC]: Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, & Conformance
  *[CNAME]: nome canonico
  *[Cc]: Copia carbone
  *[LAN]: Local Area Network
  *[SSH]: secure shell protocol
  *[HTTPS]: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
  *[UUID]: Universal Unique Identifier
  *[POS]: Point of Sale
  *[URL]: Uniform Resource Locator
  *[2FA]: two-factor authentication
  *[QR]: Quick Response
  *[LDAP]: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
  *[KPI]: Indicatori di Prestazione Chiave
  *[ICP]: Indicatori Chiave di Prestazione
  *[CV]: curriculum vitae
  *[IAP’s]: in-app purchases
  *[DMFA]: De Multifunctionele Aangifte
  *[VIN]: Vehicle Identification Number
  *[MSRP]: Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price
  *[SMS]: Short Message Service
  *[CTOR]: click-to-open rate
  *[CTR]: Click through rate
  *[LIFO]: Last In, First Out
  *[SAQ]: Self-Assessment Questionnaire
  *[VAT]: Value-Added Tax Identification
  *[SMP]: Service Metadata Publisher
  *[AVCO]: Average Costing
  *[OdA]: Ordine di acquisto
  *[sportello unico OSS]: One-Stop Shop
  *[IAPs]: in-app purchases
  *[SOs]: Sales Orders
  *[SRI]: servicio de rentas internas
  *[ATS]: Anexo Transaccional Simplificado
  *[FPS]: Service Public Federal Finances
  *[ADW]: Average Daily Wage
  *[SII]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[CAFs]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[DTE]: Documentos Tributarios Electrónicos
  *[RUT]: Registro único tributario
  *[CAF]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[SII’s]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[PPM]: Provisional Monthly Payments rate
  *[IFRS]: International Financial Reporting Standards
  *[PCMN]: Plan Comptable Minimum Normalisé
  *[FDM]: Fiscal Data Module
  *[VSC]: VAT signing card
  *[TSS]: Technical Security System
  *[DSFinV-K]: Digitale Schnittstelle der Finanzverwaltung für Kassensysteme
  *[PCGE]: Plan Contable General Empresarial
  *[SUNAT]: Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas y de Administración Tributaria
  *[GRE]: Guía de Remisión Electrónica
  *[OTP]: One-time Password
  *[GAAP]: Generally Acceptable Accounting Practices
  *[AR]: Accounts Receivable
  *[AP]: Accounts Payable
  *[CoA]: chart of accounts
  *[SEC]: Securities and Exchange Commission
  *[CFS]: Cash Flow Statement
  *[ACH]: automated clearing house
  *[NACHA]: National Automated Clearing House Association
  *[DBA]: Danish Bookkeeping Act
  *[IRBM]: Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia
  *[ETA]: Egyptian Tax Authority
  *[FACe]: General Entrance for Electronic Invoices
  *[DIAN]: Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales
  *[UID-Nummer]: Umsatzsteueridentifikationsnummer
  *[AFIP]: Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos
  *[DGI]: Dirección General Impositiva
  *[CAEs]: Constancia de Autorización de Emisión
  *[CUI]: Codul Unic de Inregistrare
  *[CIF]: *Codul de identificare fiscală*
  *[SLS]: Summary List of Sales
  *[SLP]: Summary List of Purchases
  *[TPAR]: Taxable Payments Annual Report
  *[AdE]: Agenzia Delle Entrate
  *[SdI]: Sistema di Interscambio
  *[PA]: Public Administration
  *[CUU]: Codice Univoco Ufficio
  *[CIG]: Codice Identificativo Gara
  *[CUP]: Codice Unico di Progetto
  *[HSM]: Hardware Security Module
  *[Ri.Ba.]: Ricevuta Bancaria
  *[NIC]: National Informatics Centre
  *[IRN]: Invoice Reference Number
  *[CGST]: Central Goods and Services Tax
  *[SGST]: State Goods and Service Tax
  *[IGST]: Integrated Goods and Services Tax
  *[ITC]: Income Tax Credit
  *[SAT]: Servicio de Administración Tributaria
  *[DIOT]: Declaración Informativa de Operaciones con Terceros
  *[RFC]: Registro Federal de Contribuyentes
  *[PAC]: Proveedor Autorizado de Certificación / Authorized Certification Provider
  *[PUE]: Pago en una Sola Exhibición/Payment in a Single Exhibition
  *[PPD]: Pago en Parcialidades o Diferido/Payment in Installements or Deferred
  *[CFDI]: Comprobante Fiscal Digital por Internet
  *[OSCU]: Online Sales Control Unit
  *[BOM]: bill of materials
  *[Bacs]: Bankers' Automated Clearing Services
  *[RCM]: Reverse Charge Mechanism
  *[PDT]: Payment Data Transfer
  *[ECO]: Engineering Change Order
  *[ECOs]: Engineering Change Orders
  *[BoMs]: Bills of Materials
  *[MOs]: Manufacturing Orders
  *[QCP]: Quality Control Point
  *[QCPs]: Quality Control Points
  *[RO]: Repair Order
  *[POs]: Purchase Orders
  *[PLM]: Product Lifecycle Management
  *[PO]: Purchase Order
  *[MTO]: Make to Order
  *[SVLs]: stock valuation layers
  *[SP]: Scrap Order
  *[DO]: Delivery Order
  *[RFQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[EORI]: Economic Operators' Registration and Identification
  *[ZPL]: Zebra Programming Language
  *[DOs]: Delivery Orders
  *[FIFO]: First In, First Out
  *[FEFO]: First Expiry, First Out
  *[UoMs]: Units of Measure
  *[MTBF]: Mean Time Between Failure
  *[MTTR]: Mean Time To Repair
  *[EAN]: European Article Number
  *[UPC]: Universal Product Code
  *[GTIN]: Global Trade Item Number
  *[GTINs]: Global Trade Item Numbers
  *[A.I.]: Application Identifier
  *[CSV]: comma separated value
  *[SLAs]: Service Level Agreements
  *[SLA]: Service Level Agreement
  *[UTM]: Urchin Tracking Module
  *[GTM]: Google Tag Manager
  *[CDN]: Content Delivery Network
  *[CORS]: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
  *[HTML]: HyperText Markup Language
  *[UI]: user interface
  *[ToS]: Terms of Service
  *[NRR]: non-recurring revenue
  *[VoIP]: Voice over Internet Protocol
  *[SIP]: Session Initiation Protocol
  *[US]: United States
  *[MP3]: MPEG Audio Layer 3
  *[WAV]: Waveform Audio File Format