# Germania — Odoo 18.0 documentazione

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](hong_kong.html "Hong Kong") |
  * [precedente](france.html "Francia") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione utente](../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../finance.html) »
  * [Fiscal localizations](../fiscal_localizations.html) »
  * Germania



# Germania¶

## Contabilità¶

Vedi anche

[Documentation on e-invoicing’s legality and compliance in Germany](../accounting/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing/germany.html)

### Piano dei conti¶

Both SKR03 and SKR04 charts of accounts are supported in Odoo. When you create a new Odoo Online database, SKR03 is installed by default.

Verify which is installed by going to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings and checking the Package field under the Fiscal Localization section.

Avvertimento

Selecting another package is only possible if you have not created an accounting entry. If one was posted, a new company or database must be set up to select another package. In addition, all journal entries will need to be created again.

### Report¶

The following German-specific reports available on Odoo Enterprise:

  * Stato patrimoniale

  * Conto economico

  * Tax Report (Umsatzsteuervoranmeldung)

  * Elenco di vendita CE

  * Intrastat




### Exporting entries from Odoo to DATEV¶

Provided that one of the German [fiscal localization packages](../fiscal_localizations.html#fiscal-localizations-packages) is installed, you can export your accounting entries from Odoo to DATEV from the general ledger.

Two types of exports are needed: first the DATEV ATCH export, then the DATEV DATA export.

Nota

Both are needed at different stages to transfer the data correctly to DATEV, as DATEV works with two interfaces, one for clients (DUO - DATEV Unternehmen Online) and one for tax advisors (DATEV Rechnungswesen).

#### 1\. DATEV ATCH¶

Go to Accounting ‣ Reporting ‣ General Ledger, click the __( Actions) button, and select Datev ATCH (zip).

Upload the downloaded ZIP file via the [DATEV Belegtransfer software](https://www.datev.de/web/de/service-und-support/software-bereitstellung/download-bereich/betriebliches-rechnungswesen/belegtransfer).

If you do not have the DATEV Belegtransfer software installed on your computer, ask your tax advisor to help you with this.

Avvertimento

The DATEV ATCH ZIP file includes the files (reports) linked to an Odoo invoice or bill. For customer invoices, the file must have been generated by using the Print & Send button. For vendor bills, the file must have been received via an email alias or uploaded by using the Upload button.

DATEV ATCH ZIP file

The ZIP file contains two types of files:

  * the individual invoice/bill files (PDF, JPEG, etc.) for the selected period on the general ledger, and

  * a `document.xml` file used to generate a unique ID (GUID) for each file.




These unique IDs are essential as they allow DATEV to automatically link the files to the individual journal items, which will be imported with the DATEV DATA file in the next step.

#### 2\. DATEV DATA¶

Go to Accounting ‣ Reporting ‣ General Ledger, click the __( Actions) button, and select Datev DATA (zip).

Transfer the downloaded ZIP file to your tax advisor. They should import the ZIP file into DATEV Rechnungswesen.

Check with your tax advisor how often they need these files.

DATEV ATCH ZIP file

The ZIP file contains three CSV files:

  * the `EXTF_customer_accounts.csv` file containing all information related to your customers,

  * the `EXTF_vendor_accounts.csv` file containing all information related to your vendors, and

  * the `EXTF_accounting_entries.csv` containing all journal items for the period defined on the general ledger, as well as the unique IDs (GUID) so that the journal items can be linked to the files inside the DATEV ATCH ZIP file.




### GoBD compliance¶

**GoBD** stands for _Grundsätze zur ordnungsmäßigen Führung und Aufbewahrung von Büchern, Aufzeichnungen und Unterlagen in elektronischer Form sowie zum Datenzugriff_. In short, it is a guideline for the proper management and storage of books, records, and documents in electronic form, as well as for data access, that is relevant for the German tax authority, tax declaration, and balance sheet.

These principles have been written and published by the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) in November 2014. Since January 2015, **they have become the norm** and have replaced previously accepted practices linked to computer-based accounting. Several changes have been made by the BMF in 2019 and January 2020 to specify some of the content due to the development of digital solutions (cloud hosting, paperless companies, etc.).

Importante

Odoo is certified **GoBD-compliant**.

#### Understanding GoBD in relation to accounting software¶

The **GoBD is binding for companies that have to present accounts** , which includes SMEs, freelancers, and entrepreneurs, to the financial authorities. As such, **the taxpayer himself is the sole responsible** for the complete and exhaustive keeping of fiscal-relevant data (above-mentioned financial and related data).

Apart from software requirements, the user is required to ensure internal control systems (_in accordance with sec. 146 of the Fiscal Code_):

  * access rights control;

  * segregation of duties, functional separating;

  * entry controls (error notifications, plausibility checks);

  * reconciliation checks at data entry;

  * processing controls; and

  * measures to prevent intentional or unintentional manipulation of software, data, or documents.




The user must distribute tasks within their organization to the relevant positions (_control_) and verify that the tasks are properly and completely performed (_supervision_). The result of these controls must be recorded (_documentation_), and should errors be found during these controls, appropriate measures to correct the situation should be put into place (_prevention_).

#### Data security¶

The taxpayer must **secure the system against any data loss** due to deletion, removal, or theft of any data. If the entries are not sufficiently secured, the bookkeeping will be regarded as not in accordance with the GoBD guidelines.

Once bookings have been finally posted, they can no longer be changed or deleted via the application.

  * If Odoo is used in the cloud, regular backups are part of the Odoo Online service. In addition, regular backups can be downloaded and backed up on external systems.

Vedi anche

[Odoo Cloud Hosting - Service Level Agreement](https://www.odooo.com/cloud-sla)

  * If the server is operated locally, the user is responsible for creating the necessary backup infrastructure.




Importante

In some cases, data has to be kept for ten years or more, so always have backups saved. It is even more important if you decide to change software provider.

#### Responsibility of the software editor¶

Considering GoBD applies only to the taxpayer, **the software editor can by no means be held responsible for the accurate and compliant documentation of their users” financial transactional data**. It can merely provide the necessary tools for the user to respect the software-related guidelines described in the GoBD.

#### Ensuring compliance through Odoo¶

The keywords, when it comes to GoBD are: **traceable, verifiable, true, clear, and continuous**. In short, you need to have audit-proof archiving in place, and Odoo provides you with the means to achieve all of these objectives:

  1. **Traceability and verifiability**

Each record in Odoo is stamped with the creator of the document, the creation date, the modification date, and who modified it. In addition, relevant fields are tracked. Thus, it can be seen which value was changed by whom in the chatter of the relevant object.

  2. **Completeness**

All financial data must be recorded in the system, and there can be no gaps. Odoo ensures that there is no gap in the numbering of the financial transactions. It is the responsibility of the user to encode all financial data in the system. As most financial data in Odoo is generated automatically, it remains the responsibility of the user to encode all vendor bills and miscellaneous operations completely.

  3. **Accuracy**

Odoo ensures that, with the correct configuration, the correct accounts are used. In addition, the control mechanisms between purchase orders and sales orders and their respective invoices reflect the reality of the business. It is the responsibility of the user to scan and attach the paper-based vendor bill to the respective record in Odoo. _Odoo Documents helps you automate this task_.

  4. **Timely booking and record-keeping**

As most financial data in Odoo is generated by the transactional objects (for example, the invoice is booked at confirmation), Odoo ensures out-of-the-box timely record-keeping. It is the responsibility of the user to encode all incoming vendor bills in a timely manner, as well as the miscellaneous operations.

  5. **Order**

Financial data stored in Odoo is, per definition, ordered and can be reordered according to most fields present in the model. A specific ordering is not enforced by the GoBD, but the system must ensure that a given financial transaction can be quickly found by a third-party expert. Odoo ensures this out-of-the-box.

  6. **Inalterability**

With the German Odoo localization, Odoo is in standard configured in such a way that the inalterability clause can be adhered to without any further customization.




#### GoBD export¶

In the case of fiscal control, the fiscal authority can request three levels of access to the accounting system (Z1, Z2, Z3). These levels vary from direct access to the interface to the handover of the financial data on a storage device.

In the case of a handover of financial data to a storage device, the GoBD does **not** enforce the format. It can be, for example, in XLS, CSV, XML, Lotus 123, SAP-format, AS/400-format, or else. Odoo supports the CSV and XLS export of financial data out of the box. The GoBD **recommends** the export in a specific XML-based GoBD format (see «Ergänzende Informationen zur Datenträgerüberlassung» §3), but it is not binding.

#### Non-compliance¶

In the event of an infringement, you can expect a fine and a court order demanding the implementation of specific measures.

## Punto vendita¶

### Technical security system¶

The **Kassensicherungsverordnung** (The Act on Protection against Manipulation of Digital Records) requires that electronic record-keeping systems - including the [point of sale](../../sales/point_of_sale.html) systems - must be equipped with a **technical security system** (also called **TSS** or **TSE**).

Odoo offers a service that is compliant with the help of [fiskaly](https://fiskaly.com/), a _cloud-based solution_.

Importante

Since this solution is cloud-based, a working internet connection is required.

Nota

The only VAT rates allowed are given by fiskaly. You can check these rates by consulting [fiskaly DSFinV-K API: VAT Definition](https://developer.fiskaly.com/api/dsfinvk/v0/#tag/VAT-Definition).

#### Configurazione¶

[Install](../../general/apps_modules.html#general-install) the **Germany - Certification for Point of Sale** (`l10n_de_pos_cert`) and **Germany - Certification for Point of Sale of type restaurant** (`l10n_de_pos_res_cert`) modules.

Suggerimento

If these modules are not listed, [update the app list](../../general/apps_modules.html#general-install).

##### Company registration at the financial authority¶

To register your company, open the Settings app, click Update Info under the Companies section, and fill in the following fields:

  * Company Name

  * Address

  * IVA

  * St.-Nr. (Steuernummer) this number is assigned by the tax office to every taxable natural or legal person (e.g., `2893081508152`).

  * W-IdNr. (Wirtschafts-Identifikationsnummer) this number is used as a permanent identification number for economically active persons.




You can then **register your company through fiskaly** by opening the Fiskaly tab and clicking the Fiskaly Registration button.

Suggerimento

If you do not see the Fiskaly Registration button, make sure that you _saved_ your company details and are not in _editing mode_ anymore.

Once the registration has been finalized, new fields appear:

  * Fiskaly Organization ID refers to the ID of your company on fiskaly’s side.

  * Fiskaly API Key and Fiskaly API Secret are the credentials the system uses to access the services offered by fiskaly.




Nota

It is possible to request new credentials if there is any issue with the current ones by clicking the New keys button.

##### Create a technical security system and link it to a POS¶

To use a point of sale in Germany, first create a TSS by going to Point of Sale ‣ Configuration ‣ Point of Sale, selecting the Point of Sale to edit, then checking the Create TSS box under the Fiskaly API section.

Once the creation of the TSS is successful, you can find the:

  * TSS ID, which refers to the ID of your TSS on fiskaly’s side, and

  * Fiskaly Client ID, which refers to your POS on fiskaly’s side.




#### DSFinV-K export¶

Whenever you close a PoS session, the details of the orders are sent to the DSFinV-K service of fiskaly.

In case of an audit, you can export the data sent to DSFinV-K by going to Point of Sale ‣ Orders ‣ DSFinV-K Exports ‣ New.

These fields are mandatory:

  * Start Datetime: export data with dates larger than or equal to the given start date

  * End Datetime: export data with dates smaller than or equal to the given end date




Leave the Point of Sale field blank to export the data of all your points of sale; specify one if you want to export data for this specific POS only.

When an export is successfully triggered and is being processed, the State field should mention Pending. Click Refresh State to check if it is ready.

[ __Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/edit/18.0/content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/germany.rst)

### Navigazione

  * [indice](../../../genindex.html "Indice generale")
  * [moduli](../../../py-modindex.html "Indice del modulo Python") |
  * [successivo](hong_kong.html "Hong Kong") |
  * [precedente](france.html "Francia") |
  * [Odoo 18.0 documentazione](../../../index-2.html) »
  * [Documentazione utente](../../../applications.html) »
  * [Finanza](../../finance.html) »
  * [Fiscal localizations](../fiscal_localizations.html) »
  * Germania


  *[ORM]: Object-Relational Mapping
  *[SQL]: Structured Query Language
  *[PR]: Pull Request
  *[CI]: Continuous integration
  *[OCR]: optical character recognition
  *[AI]: Artificial Intelligence
  *[IAP]: in-app purchases
  *[RTL]: right-to-left
  *[RST]: reStructuredText
  *[GUI]: graphical user interface
  *[TOC]: Table Of Contents
  *[SEO]: Search Engine Optimization
  *[EDI]: electronic data interchange
  *[SDD]: SEPA Direct Debit
  *[PLE]: Programa de Libros Electrónico
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials
  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[MPS]: Master Production Schedules
  *[OEE]: overall equipment effectiveness
  *[RFQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQ]: Request for Quotation
  *[RfQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[IU]: Interfaccia Utente
  *[UoM]: Unit of Measure
  *[PoS]: Point of Sale
  *[FBM]: Fulfilled by Merchant
  *[FBA]: Fulfilled by Amazon
  *[API]: application programming interface
  *[IVA]: imposta sul valore aggiunto
  *[MRR]: Monthly Recurring Revenue
  *[ARR]: Annual Recurring Revenue
  *[USB]: Universal Serial Bus
  *[IoT]: Internet of Things
  *[OS]: Operating System
  *[SO]: Sales Order
  *[MRP]: Material Requirement Planning
  *[DNS]: Domain Name System
  *[SMTP]: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
  *[SSL]: Secure Sockets Layer
  *[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
  *[SPF]: Sender Policy Framework
  *[DKIM]: DomainKeys Identified Mail
  *[DMARC]: Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, & Conformance
  *[CNAME]: nome canonico
  *[Cc]: Copia carbone
  *[LAN]: Local Area Network
  *[SSH]: secure shell protocol
  *[HTTPS]: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
  *[UUID]: Universal Unique Identifier
  *[POS]: Point of Sale
  *[URL]: Uniform Resource Locator
  *[2FA]: two-factor authentication
  *[QR]: Quick Response
  *[LDAP]: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
  *[KPI]: Indicatori di Prestazione Chiave
  *[ICP]: Indicatori Chiave di Prestazione
  *[CV]: curriculum vitae
  *[IAP’s]: in-app purchases
  *[DMFA]: De Multifunctionele Aangifte
  *[VIN]: Vehicle Identification Number
  *[MSRP]: Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price
  *[SMS]: Short Message Service
  *[CTOR]: click-to-open rate
  *[CTR]: Click through rate
  *[LIFO]: Last-In, First-Out
  *[SAQ]: Self-Assessment Questionnaire
  *[VAT]: Value Added Tax
  *[SMP]: Service Metadata Publisher
  *[AVCO]: Average Cost Valuation
  *[OdA]: Ordine di acquisto
  *[sportello unico OSS]: One-Stop Shop
  *[IAPs]: in-app purchases
  *[SOs]: Sales Order
  *[SRI]: servicio de rentas internas
  *[ATS]: Anexo Transaccional Simplificado
  *[FPS]: Service Public Federal Finances
  *[ADW]: Average Daily Wage
  *[SII]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[CAFs]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[DTE]: Documentos Tributarios Electrónicos
  *[RUT]: Rol Único Tributario
  *[CAF]: Folio Authorization Code
  *[SII’s]: Servicio de Impuestos Internos
  *[PPM]: Provisional Monthly Payments rate
  *[IFRS]: International Financial Reporting Standards
  *[PCMN]: Plan Comptable Minimum Normalisé
  *[FDM]: Fiscal Data Module
  *[VSC]: VAT signing card
  *[TSS]: Technical Security System
  *[DSFinV-K]: Digitale Schnittstelle der Finanzverwaltung für Kassensysteme
  *[PCGE]: Plan Contable General Empresarial
  *[SUNAT]: Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas y de Administración Tributaria
  *[GRE]: Guía de Remisión Electrónica
  *[OTP]: One-time Password
  *[GAAP]: Generally Acceptable Accounting Practices
  *[AR]: Accounts Receivable
  *[AP]: Accounts Payable
  *[CoA]: chart of accounts
  *[SEC]: Securities and Exchange Commission
  *[CFS]: Cash Flow Statement
  *[ACH]: automated clearing house
  *[NACHA]: National Automated Clearing House Association
  *[DBA]: Danish Bookkeeping Act
  *[IRBM]: Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia
  *[ETA]: Egyptian Tax Authority
  *[FACe]: General Entrance for Electronic Invoices
  *[DIAN]: Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales
  *[UID-Nummer]: Umsatzsteueridentifikationsnummer
  *[AFIP]: Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos
  *[DGI]: Dirección General Impositiva
  *[CAEs]: Constancia de Autorización de Emisión
  *[CUI]: Codul Unic de Inregistrare
  *[CIF]: *Codul de identificare fiscală*
  *[SLS]: Summary List of Sales
  *[SLP]: Summary List of Purchases
  *[TPAR]: Taxable Payments Annual Report
  *[AdE]: Agenzia Delle Entrate
  *[SdI]: Sistema di Interscambio
  *[PA]: Public Administration
  *[CUU]: Codice Univoco Ufficio
  *[CIG]: Codice Identificativo Gara
  *[CUP]: Codice Unico di Progetto
  *[HSM]: Hardware Security Module
  *[Ri.Ba.]: Ricevuta Bancaria
  *[NIC]: National Informatics Centre
  *[IRN]: Invoice Reference Number
  *[CGST]: Central Goods and Services Tax
  *[SGST]: State Goods and Service Tax
  *[IGST]: Integrated Goods and Services Tax
  *[ITC]: Income Tax Credit
  *[SAT]: Servicio de Administración Tributaria
  *[DIOT]: Declaración Informativa de Operaciones con Terceros
  *[RFC]: Registro Federal de Contribuyentes
  *[PAC]: fornitori autorizzati
  *[PUE]: Pago en una Sola Exhibición/Payment in a Single Exhibition
  *[PPD]: Pago en Parcialidades o Diferido/Payment in Installements or Deferred
  *[CFDI]: Comprobante Fiscal Digital por Internet
  *[OSCU]: Online Sales Control Unit
  *[BOM]: bill of materials
  *[Bacs]: Bankers' Automated Clearing Services
  *[RCM]: Reverse Charge Mechanism
  *[PDT]: Payment Data Transfer
  *[ECO]: Engineering Change Order
  *[ECOs]: Engineering Change Orders
  *[BoMs]: Bills of Materials
  *[MOs]: Manufacturing Orders
  *[QCP]: Quality Control Point
  *[QCPs]: Quality Control Points
  *[RO]: Repair Order
  *[POs]: Purchase Orders
  *[PLM]: Product Lifecycle Management
  *[PO]: Purchase Order
  *[MTO]: Make to Order
  *[SVLs]: stock valuation layers
  *[SP]: Scrap Order
  *[DO]: Delivery Order
  *[RFQs]: Requests for Quotation
  *[EORI]: Economic Operators' Registration and Identification
  *[ZPL]: Zebra Programming Language
  *[DOs]: Delivery Orders
  *[FIFO]: First In, First Out
  *[FEFO]: First Expiry, First Out
  *[UoMs]: Units of Measure
  *[MTBF]: Mean Time Between Failure
  *[MTTR]: Mean Time To Repair
  *[EAN]: European Article Number
  *[UPC]: Universal Product Code
  *[GTIN]: Global Trade Item Number
  *[GTINs]: Global Trade Item Numbers
  *[A.I.]: Application Identifier
  *[CSV]: comma separated value
  *[SLAs]: Service Level Agreements
  *[SLA]: Service Level Agreement
  *[UTM]: Urchin Tracking Module
  *[GTM]: Google Tag Manager
  *[CDN]: Content Delivery Network
  *[CORS]: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
  *[HTML]: HyperText Markup Language
  *[UI]: user interface
  *[ToS]: Terms of Service
  *[NRR]: non-recurring revenue
  *[VoIP]: Voice over Internet Protocol
  *[SIP]: Session Initiation Protocol
  *[US]: United States
  *[MP3]: MPEG Audio Layer 3
  *[WAV]: Waveform Audio File Format
  *[NSSL]: Non-Shopee Supported Logistics
  *[MID]: Merchant ID
  *[TID]: Terminal ID
  *[ISBN]: International Standard Book Number
  *[IP]: intellectual property
  *[SSC]: Jordanian Social Security Corporation
  *[UAE]: United Arab Emirates
  *[GCC]: Gulf Cooperation Council
  *[DEWS]: Daman Investments End of Service Programme
  *[WPS]: Wages Protection System
  *[EOS]: End Of Service
  *[EDR]: Employee Detail Record
  *[SCR]: Salary Control Record
  *[B2G]: business-to-government
  *[UBL]: Universal Business Language
  *[ZRE]: Zentraler Rechnungseingang
  *[OZG-RE]: Onlinezugangsgesetz-Rechnungseingang
  *[IGV]: Impuesto General a las Ventas) e di altre imposte applicabili, garantendo accuratezza e conformità con gli standard di rendicontazione fiscale del :abbr:`SUNAT (Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas y de Administración Tributaria
  *[CUFE]: Código Único de Factura Electrónica
  *[CIUS-PT]: Customizable Invoice User Specification for Portugal
  *[USP]: Unternehmensserviceportal
  *[CIS]: Central Invoice System
  *[CAE]: Código de Autorización Electrónico
  *[FE]: Factura Electrónica
  *[CFE]: Comprobante Fiscal Electrónico
  *[ANAF]: Agenzia nazionale rumena per l'amministrazione fiscale
  *[Sdi]: Sistema di Interscambio
  *[NF-e]: Nota Fiscal Eletrônica
  *[NFS-e]: Nota Fiscal de Serviços Eletrônica
  *[NFC-e]: Nota Fiscal de Consumidor Eletrônica
  *[SEFAZ]: Secretaria da Fazenda
  *[SIREN]: Système d'identification du répertoire des entreprises, Business Directory Identification System